# The Check

Frankie's head bent over the calculator, strands of wavy hair floating in the breeze of the fan and occasionally bothering her figures. As her fingers flew across the keys the printer tape advanced steadily outward, spilling past the edge of the desk and onto the floor.

She enjoyed spinning the thread of numbers in this way, though it was an arduous task that she regretted in hindsight every quarter. There was something pure in the ache of it all, something noble about making these little slips of papers, these greasy old receipts, gather together into a nice, tidy column.

She finished a stack and looked up, as though someone else might have been standing over her. But there was no one in the cramped little office, just her desk and a chair opposite, struggling under the weight of a full years' worth of grubby paperworkj.

A year had passed since Johnny had died.

Once the initial shock faded, and the funeral passed, and the stream of mourners slowed to a trickle, Frankie reopened the diner. At first it seemed like an insult to his memory, to hire a line cook to take his place. The new kid was brash, moved fast, flipped pancakes as though she'd been doing it since birth. With time, Frankie realized that the reopening was exactly what she needed. The routine of opening the doors each morning, the flow of boisterous customers, the sizzle of eggs cracking over the griddle - it all felt right, somehow. Surely Johnny would have approved.

The loneliness was its own kind of company, she found. The bare lightbulb hanging overhead, a single beam of light illuminating the dusty and windowless office - there was nothing she preferred, when working on the books. There was a reason she didn't camp out at a booth in the diner, as Johnny sometimes liked to do, to be enveloped by the clatter of plates and the gurgle of chatter at the other tables. Why bother with all the well-wishers who would inevitably pass by, when she had a perfectly nice box of receipts at her fingertips?

It was not the greasy food that took Johnny away, surprisingly. He sampled his own wares quite freely, but never had so much as an uncomfortable checkup at the doctor's. Something of a modern miracle, the doctor used to say, a cook at a greasy spoon with a healthy ticker. Johnny liked to repeat that line often, it was like a magical talisman decorating his neck. Frankie sometimes wondered if it was the repetition itself which brought him good health; doctors always had tricks like that up their sleeves.

Frankie got up, stretched, put on her jacket and went outside through the back door. Didn't even bother with stashing her keys in her pocket. Across the street from a diner was a tiny little park, just a scrap of grass really, but at the far edge stood a copse of pine trees. It was a nice spot to relax from time to time, the sort of place she could let her mind wander. The bench underneath was rarely inhabited, and Frankie planted herself there. Through the branches of the tree, little spindles of afternoon light fell on the ground, forming a pattern she couldn't quite discern.

Johnny did not observe many rituals in his time, but he did have a habit of writing out receipts for his own lunches at the diner. It was a funny thing to do, and at first Frankie supposed that he was trying to help her keep the books intact - not that it really made much difference. But that wasn't it after all, because she found that more often than not he didn't even know that she had paid taxes. It was several years after starting the diner that he discovered they had any kind of budget at all. Perhaps the mounting collection of receipts was his own kind of journal, a slow and small testament to his daily life. It was impossible to know. One way or the other, she was left with a box full of her husband's accumulated lunch orders, about the weight and heft of a skein of wool. It was these that she placed on the bench beside her, thrumming the lid absently with her fingers.

It was a quiet afternoon, with only a few birds hopping among the branches of the trees above her. Occasionally she'd hear the chirpy report of a sparrow, the trilled complaint of a robin. She could not quite name the reason she had brought the box with her. She had left the diner was to get away from work for a minute, she certainly didn't intend to bring it with her. She had other keepsakes of Johnny's, an old jacket and a favorite basbeall, countless spatulas. She didn't really want those today. She opened the lid and sifted the greasy scraps of paper through her fingers.

A whole season had gone by, once, when Johnny had nothing but eggs and toast for lunch. He swore by it as though it was the perfect lunch, and then one day, he switched to chicken clubs. He could be like that, sometimes, finicky. Temperamental. Those were good years, simple. The diner wasn't doing terribly well, it was all they had: a sizzling griddle, loyal customers, idle walks down the street in the middle of the day when business was slow.

When was that? Two years ago? Five?

Frankie rifled through the receipts, her fingers padding through as though one scrap of paper or the other might contain the answer.

Of course it was not any one scrap of paper, but several of them put together that held the answer. But did it matter, really? What was the difference between two years, and two decades, when it came to something as fleeting as a memory? She would not be able to recover those days, even if she could reconstruct every last detail of that bygone season. Johnny was gone, a walk down Main Street in the middle of the day was no longer all that peaceful. The diner was far too successful; at one point she and Johnny had even talked about opening a second location. But what was the use in that, aside from more headaches?

A man strolled through the park, walking not one, not two, but three dogs. He was supposed to have them on a leash, but they seemed gentle enough. At least until the big golden retriever lumbered up to Frankie, offering to slobber all over her legs and nearly sending the box of receipts flying. He apologized and quickly brought the dog to heel, and Frankie shrugged it off as he slunk off abashedly.

Watching him go, Frankie's eyebrows gathered into a frown. She simply could not let her question rest; she had to know.

It was later that day when she cracked the lid open on her laptop and created a database she called "Johnny's checks." She thought, briefly, about creating a gizmo - or buying one, surely there was a way to buy one - that would read all of his receipts, one by one, and turn them into records for her database. She decided against it out of sheer obstinance; that would take time and she didn't want to bother. She wanted the answer to her question, not another mess of screws and wires on her desk. Once the question entered her mind, she simply couldn't let go of it.

It started out simply enough - typing the receipts into her database, one by one. It was a large enough stack, so it was a simple chore but a long and tedious one. Her fingers ached as she progressed and she had to stretch and walk around more than a few times. What a lot of pain and bother, she thought, for such a simple question, and more than a few times she considered abandoning it. More than a few times, too, she decided that Johnny would have somehow wanted her to stick with it. Or rather, she convinced herself that was true; the man had probably never met a database and almost certainly didn't care very much about them.

She answered the question for herself soon enough - it was three years ago - but forgot it just as quickly. The database took on a life of its own, and she found that she couldn't easily put it out of her mind. What else could she put in it? Other receipts, certainly. Dates, prices, items ordered, of course. Could she remember how her customers felt after each order? The menu items they wanted to order, but didn't? The slices of pie that turned into three or four? She found that she could remember all of that, and she could not stop writing it down.

Frankie worked feverishly for a day, then two. A week went by before she was done and she'd allow herself out of the office. When she finally emerged she felt threadbare. Some giant machine had been spinning and spinning, and could barely stop its own momentum. But she was happy, too - thrilled at having begun something new, at having exhausted everything she had at her disposal. Here, finally, was a comprehensive history of Johnny and his diner - every hash brown and omelette recorded for posterity. It was a tribute, perhaps, a monument to the measured hours and countless days and sleepless nights that had made this place what it was. But what was it?

She gave herself a few minutes in Johnny's favorite booth, a slice stolen from the cross-hatched apple pie on display. Frankie took a bite, then two. Her feet pressed into the ground with a certain shade of melancholy, her fingertips clutched the table top as though it might otherwise slide away. The swirly pattern in the Formica seemed to straighten out, as though it finally made sense. The table had been set for four, the knives and forks neatly arranged. Orderly.

What was she feeling? Was it grief? Nostalgia? A touch of madness? No, not that, none of those. It was something different.

Something complete.